Time to start working with the query editor and time to work on the rows.
So here I am in the first query
and one thing we can see is that the color names are not really good
and we're working on a data model
finally in this project and in Power BI and whenever you work on data models, you have to make sure that
the columns are named correctly and that they really represent the data that you can see in the corresponding
column. At the moment,
this is not the case
so we have to change that column names and good names for that columns that would be the data in row
two.
Now you might say we had the problem in the first module,
right and you're right,
however let's take a more detailed look at the problem right now.
So we want to make sure that the names in the second row are the column names
and to do this, we have to make two things.
We first have to delete the first row because this row, nobody needs that actually
and then we have to turn that second row which will then be the first row of course into the header,
so the column names.
Now let's see how this works.
The first thing we have to do is to delete the first row is
we have to go to the home ribbon right here and then go to the reduce row section right there. In this
section,
we have two options,
we can either keep rows and if you click right here,
you can see that you have different options on what you want to do with those rows
but we don't need that right now
and you have the remove rows functionalities right there
and this is what we need, right?
We have that remove top rows,
this is the one that we want to use right now but you can also see that you have multiple options on
how to work with that rows.
So you can remove the bottom rows, alternate rows,
this means you can define a pattern which allows you to remove every fifth row for instance and you
can also remove rows depending on certain row types,
so if you have duplicates, blank rows or errors. We will take a look at those throughout the course
but right now, we only need the remove top rows option right here.
Let's press that
and now we have to specify how many rows we want to delete.
Well in our case, this is easy,
we start counting from the top so we want to delete the first row,
so one, like this. We now press enter or OK and we can see that the first row is gone, again
you can see that also in the applied steps, remove the top rows and you can see that from the core perspective
right there.
Now that we did that, we have to make one more thing, we have to turn that first row into a header.
So you can simply go to the home ribbon and in the right part here, you can find the use first row
as header function.
Now this is the transform area,
don't we have a transform ribbon?
Yes we have that
and if we click right here, you can see that you also have that use first row as headers option right there
and the important thing is that the functionality is exactly the same but there are some functions which
you can find in the multiple ribbons
and this just allows you to work with Power BI the way you prefer,
however the important thing is that we want to turn the first row into a header
and if you click the button in the upper part, this will happen immediately. If I click it in the lower part,
you can find that you have two options,
you can either turn the first row into the headers which is what we want to do or you can turn the
header into a first row.
Now let's click the first to see what happens,
I know we don't want to do that but just to make sure that you saw it.
So if you click that, you can see that the first row is now equal to the header,
well this is what happens right there but we don't want to do that.
So we can undo that step by simply going to the applied steps area right here and pressing onto that
x,
if we do that, you can see that we undid our last action and this is good because we didn't want to turn
the headers into first row,
we wanted to turn the first row into headers and let's do this now by clicking here and we can see that
we now cleaned that table
initially. We're not done yet of course but I think with the first query, this looks fine for a moment.
Let's see what you have to do in the second query, right here.
In this query we have the same problem
first, we see that the first row,
well this should be the header actually
and this is just a problem that we have because we change the options,
you remember we disabled this automatic data detection and this is the reason why Power BI doesn't turn that
first row into the header automatically because it would have recognized that this is probably the
header.
However we know how we can change that so we can simply go to the home ribbon or we can stay in the transform ribbon
of course, as you prefer
but let's click here and press use first row as headers, like this and we can see that we did that
but there is another problem in that query. If you look at the rows 9 to 12, you can see that N/As, N/A
this might be an error,
right? Now if we would go to the home ribbon, go to remove rows and press remove errors,
well this wouldn't work because this is an error as it looks to us but at the moment,
let me just unselect that, we can see that all of these columns are formatted as text,
you can find that right here but we'll talk about that later.
Now the problem is that N/A is not recognized as an error at the moment from power BI,
it's just text
so this is basically the same thing like 2000 or Afghanistan right here,
it cannot identify that as an error
so we cannot use the remove errors function at the moment in this table but we have another option how
to solve that problem,
we could apply a filter,
let's see how this works.
So first, we select a column that includes that N/A,
so in our case this location column right here and if we now press onto that error right here, you can
see a list of the rows of that column,
not all of the rows of course, as you can see where that list may be incomplete
command right here. If you press load more, you can see that all of the rows are loaded right now
and now you have two options on how to find that N/A.
You could either look for it right here
and we find it right there or you can type N/A
and then you can see that we have N/A in this section. If you now unselect N/A and press OK,
then you have a problem because now you unselected N/A which is totally correct
but you also unselected all of the other countries that were not displayed in that window.
Let's see what happened.
If I click onto the filter, you can see that we unselected all the countries that didn't include that
N/A term
and this is a big problem
so you have to be really careful when you use that search function.
This is why I wouldn't recommend that at the moment.
Now let's press cancel and undo that filter and go back to the filter again and now look for N/A manually,
we have it right here.
Now if we unselect it now and press OK, we can see that only N/A was unabled or was filtered,
let's check that by clicking the filter and pressing load more
and as you can see, we loaded all of the countries, the only country that is not in the list is our N/A
right here,
so this is fine now.
So we cleaned the second table,
let's go onto the third query, right there. In this query,
I don't see a problem right here
but if I scroll down, we can see that we have some blank rows in there
and now we have two options on how to solve that problem,
that's also something that you will find in Power BI more often.
You normally don't have one way on how to solve your problems,
of course there are better ways or worse ways but generally, you have multiple options for many problems.
In this case, we can solve the problem using two different approaches.
One approach would be the filter again,
so if you click onto the filter right here for instance and now unselect a blank column like this and
press OK, we can see that we don't have that blank column, that blank row anymore.
Now this is one option but you already know how to filter rows,
so let's undo that by clicking here again and again you see how important this apply steps function
is,
it really is a big help
when you work with the query editor. Now we want to get rid of those blank rows which are back again
now and to do this, we can go to the home ribbon right here and go to remove rows
and here we have that remove blank rows option right there.
If you click that, you can see that we remove the blank rows.
So this looks almost good right now,
the only thing we have to change is that again, the first row has to be turned into headers.
I explained that this is just due to our options but this is good for the moment because then we see
how the data are imported into the query editor in a raw form without any changes applied automatically.
Now let's change that by pressing the use first row as headers button again, like this.
This is it,
we now did our first cleaning of the rows in the query editor
but one thing you might have seen throughout that cleaning procedure, if you look at the different queries,
you can see that they are basically the same,
the only difference is the period they cover.
So wouldn't it be great if we could combine those three queries into one single query?
Let's see how this works in the next video.